Goal:
-----
    The goal of this project is to build Data Warehouse and Data Warehousing process from songs and user activity datasets to be analyzed by Sparkify analytics team.

Source:
-------
   1. Song data: subset of millions of song data files in JSON files
   2. Log data: the event activity logs data generated by music streaming apps
   
Target:
-------
    Dimensionally modelled data wareshouse using star database schema consists of 
           Fact table: SONGPLAYS
           Dimension tables:
                       USERS
                       ARTISTS
                       SONGS
                       TIME
        and the ETL pipelines and process to populate with data.
        
Analytical Questions:
---------------------
    The data warehouse schema design should help answering all the questions by analtyics teams related to users and their listening songs, some of the sample questions are,
          1. what are the songs users are listening in a given time period?
          2. what is the mostly played song?
          3. who is the most popular artist in terms of his/her songs listened?
          
How to run project files:
-------------------------
    1. Place all the songs json files under "data/song_data" directory related to current project
    2. Place all the logs json files under "data/log_data" directory related to current project
    3. Run create_tables.py to create the sportifydb database and fact and dimension tables using sql_queries.py
    4. Run etl.py to create and run the etl pipelines to extract the data from source json files to datawarehouse
    
Analytics:
----------
    Below are the analytical questions and the answers from the database,
        1. what are the songs users are listening in 2018?
            select s.title from songplays f join time t on f.start_time=t.start_time join songs s on s.song_id=f.song_id where t.year=2018
        2. what is the mostly played song?
            select title, playcount from (select s.title, count(f.*) playcount from songplays f join songs s on f.song_id=s.song_id group by s.title) a order by playcount desc LIMIT 1 
        3. select title, playcount from (select a.name, count(*) playcount from songplays f join artists a on f.artist_id=s.artist_id group by a.name) a order by playcount desc LIMIT 1 
    
Note:
-----
     The dimension tables SONGS and ARTISTS are populated with default dummy record with key 'N/A'. 
     Why we need to do this? As per source log data, the fact table can have records without songs and artists hence to accommodate proper slice and dicing with dimenations a   dummy record with key 'N/A' is populated.
                       

